The SJTU Emotion EEG Dataset (SEED) dataset was developed by the Research Center for Brain Computing and Machine Intelligence (BCMI) at 
Shanghai Jiaotong University. The dataset is designed based on the EEG emotion classification task. 
The dataset recorded EEG signals from 15 subjects as they watched positive, neutral, and negative emotional 
movie clips, each of which lasted 3-5 minutes. The collection was repeated for three days for each participant, 
with an interval of about a week. The SEED dataset was recorded using a 62-channel ESI NeuroScan device at a 
sampling rate of 1 kHz, then downsampled to 200Hz and a 0-75Hz bandpass filter was used to remove artifacts from 
the EEG signal data.

Fifteen Chinese film clips (positive, neutral and negative emotions) were chosen from the pool of materials as 
stimuli used in the experiments. The duration of each film clip is approximately 4 minutes. Each film clip is well 
edited to create coherent emotion eliciting and maximize emotional meanings. 

There is a total of 15 trials for each experiment. There was a 5 s hint before each clip, 45 s for 
self-assessment and 15 s to rest after each clip in one session. The order of presentation is arranged 
in such a way that two film clips that target the same emotion are not shown consecutively. 
For feedback, the participants were told to report their emotional reactions to each film clip by completing 
the questionnaire immediately after watching each clip.

EEG signals and eye movements were collected with the 62-channel ESI NeuroScan System and SMI eye-tracking glasses. 
The experimental scene and the corresponding EEG electrode placement are shown in the following figures.

Fifteen Chinese subjects (7 males and 8 females; MEAN: 23.27, STD: 2.37) participated in the experiments. 
To protect personal privacy, we hide their names and indicate each subject with a number from 1 to 15. 
1st-5th and 8th-14th subjects (12 subjects) have EEG and eye movement data while the 6th, 7th and 15th subjects 
only have EEG data.

Website:
(1) https://bcmi.sjtu.edu.cn/~seed/index.html
